# Group-Project

Jacob Carse,
Matthew Lees,
Raviraj Minawala,
Mark Pastuszka,
Subhodeep Sengupta, 

*We need a name for our program 
next meeting ?
Ucrypt? haha

Something with NFC in the name maybe? NFCrypt?

My current placeholder is Magic Thing.
I kinda like that :P 
"Magic thing" could be interpreted in a way that we would not want anyone to :P


I am still confused that who's doing the tools bit in the documentation? Is it Mark or me? let me know so that i can get started
on it if it's me :)
