EasyCrypt
########

Jacob Carse, 
Matthew Lees,  
Raviraj Minawala,  
Mark Pastuszka,  
Subhodeep Sengupta,   

The artefact has been created around the theme of Cyber Security and Cyber Crime and the grouphas tried to make a functional application that secures files for the user but uses an unconventional means of security on the application. A part of our aim in this project is to make the process of securing the user’s files more usable and efficient. According to Wired magazine, passwords can ruin a user’s life if it not kept secure “Just a simple string of characters … that can reveal everything about you.” (Honan, 2012). This is an aim that all the group members agree upon and therefore as a unit have tried to make advancements in the field relating to the issue.In the project proposal it was purposed that a program that would shuffles the contents of the file making it completely nonsensical for any user that sees contents. Only a Near Field Communication (NFC) device, which the user is provided with, could access the files and turn it back to its original form. The aim here was to misguide potential hackers and unauthorised users into believing the file is insignificant adding a new level of security.  


Through more detailed research and certain development tests with NFC and encryption algorithms, the group has decided to not include the shuffling ability which was planned originally in the proposal. Instead, the artefact will be a program that uses NFC to access a secure profile where users can then encrypt files, and decrypt files originally encrypted by the same profile. This change is motivated by the fact that shuffling the contents of a file would only be possible on specific file types, where encryption is not limited to specific file types. The shuffling of contents, given the time and resource constraints, would only give us the time to implement for few file types limiting the functionality of the application. Without the contents shuffling functionally, our program will now be able to more efficiently and securely encrypt all file types, giving the users more flexibility in their use of the application. Although deviating from our proposal, our main aim remains the same which is to minimise or eliminate the use of passwords and make cyber security more usable and efficient.Obtaining users passwords is no longer a big issue for hackers; examples of hackers obtaining passwords, including the hack of 1.2 billion usernames and passwords from 420,000 different websites by a Russian group (BBC News, 2014), are regularly in the news. To tackle such an issue, the group has tried to implement NFC to secure files, eliminating the use of passwords. NFC is a way of broadcast data over a very short range and has gaining a large recognition because its convenience and efficiency. It has been widely used in banking, where making payments have been made easier, contactless and needs no designated PIN-code, which the user has to remember in order to make a transaction. With this artefact we are aiming to implement the same process, in securing files stored locally on the computer.  

Our program enables the users to protect their files via encryption accessed using NFC devices, where only a personalised NFC device can unlock the user’s profile that contains the encrypted files. This adds an extra level of protection as well as having a physical level of security for the file, therefore adding extra difficulty for a hacker access files. In an article by Ira Brodsky (2012), NFC is highly praised wherein he talks about several tests that were performed that demonstrate the low possibility of hacking into an NFC device. According to Ira Brodsky “NFC is a wireless security game-changer”.  

Apart from obvious security concerns the artefact tries to deal with, the program tries to make an encryption process more usable and efficient for the users. Usability is a predominant concern for users, as in order to make passwords secure the user must create and remember long complex passwords that will hinder efficiency and usability. Utilising NFC to its fullest, the group has tried to merge usability and security to make the encryption process more efficient. Especially for our specific target audience, the elderly community, an application like this could potentially help elderly people who are unable to remember passwords keep their files secure. An application such as this also makes the process more efficient for the less technically skilled users, which will help users add more security to their files as the application will be usable.

Also featured in the application, the user has the ability to encrypt multiple files under one profile. Other profiles will then not be able to decrypt the file encrypted by another profile; this makes each encrypted file personal to a profile. Multiple profiles can be created on the application as long as it has a unique NFC device attached; this allows for people who share computers to still maximise security.
